I am now going to talk
about something called Flux.
Flux automates the deployment of containers to Kubernetes.
It can synchronize your version control,
Git, and your Kubernetes cluster.
With Flux, you can put manifest files,
your Kubernetes YAML files,
within your Git repository.
Flux will monitor this repository
and make sure that what's in the manifest files
is deployed to the cluster.
Flux also has interesting features
where it can automatically upgrade your containers
to the latest version available
within your Docker repository.
It uses semantic versioning for that, for example,
you can say that the container you are going to deploy
needs to stay within one major version, for example
so that it doesn't go from V one to V two.
But if there's a minor or a patch update,
it will upgrade automatically.
Flux has joined the CNCF,
the Cloud Native Computing Foundation,
and Flux believes in GitOps.
So from the GitHub page,
they're saying you declaratively describe
the entire desired state of your system in Git.
So with the manifest files,
you are going to describe the state
of your system, the cluster within your version control.
What can be described can be automated.
So once you describe your system,
it can automatically deploy these things on your cluster
and you push code, not containers.
So you're not doing manual actions,
you're just writing your code,
putting that code on your GitHub
and then your automated systems
should take care of the rest.
Building the Docker containers,
pushing the Docker containers
and deploying it on Kubernetes.
And Flux is a tool that will then keep your code
and the Kubernetes cluster in sync
by deploying your YAML files when there are changes.
So this is the architectural overview of Flux.
You can find this image also on their GitHub page.
So let's go briefly over this.
So on the left, you have the developer.
And instead of running kubectl apply straight
to the Kubernetes API to the Kubernetes cluster,
it is just going to commit the YAML files
to his or her Git repository.
The developer can push its container images
or you typically have your CISD pipeline
that can also push your container images for you.
It's on the Flux CD
that is going to keep your Git repository in sync.
So it will read your Git repository,
go over your files to get the manifest files,
the Kubernetes manifest files
and it will then analyze those,
it will pull the image's metadata
to see if there are no newer versions available
because there's a possibility as well
that Flux automatically gets the latest version
from your Docker repository
and then it's going to change this image tag
in your manifest file before it sends it to Kubernetes.
So that's something that it does as well.
There's also a memcached running.
So Flux is going to sync with that
to keep the image metadata there.
It's then going to apply or delete resources
on Kubernetes, for example,
if you had a deployment
and the deployment didn't exist yet,
Flux will then apply this deployment on the Kubernetes API
and Kubernetes will use still etcd as a backend
to store that information.
So the actual deployment you will still find
on your etcd.
So when you do kubectl get deployment,
you'll still get the correct information
that your deployment has been applied to Kubernetes
and it will start running the pods.
So let's try that out in the next demo.
Let's see if you can put a deployment manifest file
on a Git repository, run Flux
and then Flux will sync this repository
with our Kubernetes cluster.